# Weekly(June 17 - June23)

## June 17

Had a fantastic day at Neuroplex, interning there. I met with founders of Company like Savier and Pranoy Dev. Gave me a task to learn by doing Single shot Multibox Detector(SSD). I tried cloning some github repos and reading the original research paper for better understanding. Attend FOSS training by #dgplug

Check my questions answer
<django_master> Everyone here talks about importance of blogging. How frequently we should blog and on what topics?
<mbuf> django_master, Stephen King (the writer) says the ratio of reading to writing is 10:1
<mbuf> django_master, if you read 10x, then you will write a 1x piece
* pritam has quit (Client Quit)
<django_master> mbuf, amazing answer
<mbuf> django_master, writing is an important habit in our culture, and we want everyone to write, get it reviewed by others as well
<snbk97> !
* pritam (~androirc@2409:4042:2613:7d99:4a75:a081:9ff6:eb01) has joined
<mbuf> django_master, it is useful documentation not only for you, but, for others as well
<mbuf> I will encourage every one to read this Stephen King's book "On Writing" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_Writing:_A_Memoir_of_the_Craft
* bsivasub has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<mbuf> he talks a lot about writing fiction, but, the practices are very good; I will not give away the answer, but, will let you all read it
<mbuf> Try to write at least one blog post per week; that is a good number
<mbuf> of course, if you are working on a massive piece, you can take your time on it
* souvikhaldar (~souvik@144.48.225.9) has joined
<mbuf> documentation is as important as writing code, and we emphasize that a lot; so, if you have good writing habits, you will do well here andtra in life; otherwise, start working on it
<mbuf> next

**Teach Programming in 21 years**: https://www.norvig.com/21-days.html

**Problems Solved**
- all in partial state


## June 18

- Learned more about SSD
- Attended FOSS.training
- Put improvement for the same PR at dvc.org, got more commandsuri


## June 19

During the day, learned more about SSD and other object detection algorithm like YOLO, RCNN. Tried cloning a SSD implementation of head detection and made it work with a set of weights. (my first objects classified with HEAD). Tried unsuccessfully trying pascal VOC inference on Keras.

- Made some progress in learning and understanding SSD paper. I will try my hands on understanding YOLO paper and try implementing the code tomorrow in Pascal VOOC.
- Completed tasks 
