---
title: More Assignments, Dopamine Detox
type: post
---

Q1. Both k-means and k-medoids algorithms can perform effective clustering. Illustrate the
strength and weakness of k-means in comparison with the k-medoids algorithm.

Answer:

KMEANs:

Given an initial set of k means (centroids) m1(1),…,m k(1) (see below), the algorithm proceeds by alternating between two steps:

Assignment step : Assign each observation to the cluster with the closest mean (i.e. partition the observations according to the Voronoi diagram generated by the means).
Update step : Calculate the new means to be the centroid of the observations in the cluster.

The algorithm is deemed to have converged when the assignments no longer change.

K-means is a classical partitioning technique of clustering that clusters the data set of n objects into k clusters with k known a priori. A useful tool for determining k is the silhouette.

KMediods:

A method to overcome errors due to outliers and making a robust algorithm we use KMean's algorithm. The most popular
K-medoids algorithm is PAM for partitioning based on central object.

Algorithm: k-medoids. PAM, a k-medoids algorithm for partitioning based on medoid
or central objects.
Input:
k: the number of clusters,
D: a data set containing n objects.
Output: A set of k clusters.
Method:
(1) arbitrarily choose k objects in D as the initial representative objects or seeds;
(2) repeat
(3) assign each remaining object to the cluster with the nearest representative object;
(4) randomly select a nonrepresentative object, orandom ;
(5) compute the total cost, S, of swapping representative object, oj, with orandom ;
(6) if S < 0 then swap oj with orandom to form the new set of k representative objects;
(7) until no change;

Yes, both k-means and k-medoids can perform effective clustering. K-means method has lot of strength by performing in
clustering in limited computation capacity, does effective clustering when user provides value K, and use EM-algorithm
to perform difference between each objects. Yet The k-means algorithm is sensitive to outliers because an object with an extremely large
value may substantially distort the distribution of data. This effect is particularly exacerbated due to the use of the square-error function.

When comparing k-means and k-medoids on basis of robustness. The k-medoid method  more robust than k-means in the presence of noise and outliers, because a medoid is less
influenced by outliers or other extreme values than a mean. However, its processing is
more costly than the k-means method. Both methods require the user to specify k, the
number of clusters.


