---
title: 🏠 WFH for 6 months
type: post
---

It's been 6 months since I joined AOT Technologies as SE-Data scientist and due to Covid -19 pandemic, on the day of joining itself
our director said this year you won't probably need to come to office. I have been a big fan of thing Work from Home for a long time,
and during my college day it was a big dream of mine to work in a remote company. It felt nearly impossible then, but then Covid-19 happened. 

Personally I first heard of remote work from Balu chetai whom I met during FOSSMEET 2018, NIT Calicut. Balasankar C has been working in Gitlab
as a Distribution Engineer from 2016 onwards. He was working in a 100% remote company from start. It was during MEC.conf after his talk on he
shared when he watered the plants it his neighbors may have thought he was not having a job, at the same time he had a great job, while the 
public perspective was that. 

It was possible to  work as remote teams even before the pandemic occurred. There were a few companies like Gitlab, Zapier, etc. embracing 100% remote work
even before pandemic began and lot of companies supported work from office if employees preferred that.

One of the best things about Covid-19 was it accelerated the whole scenario of work from home by at least 10 years. Now when I say, I work remotely
from home, it is not anymore fancy. Lot of people reply back telling that few of their neighbors who work in TCS, Infosys
is also working remotely. Companies like [TCS are embracing WFH and are aiming by 2025 to have just 25% of their workforce in office](https://www.indiatvnews.com/business/news-tcs-work-from-home-75-percent-employees-2025-612357). 

I am writing this article to have more clarity for myself to improve my remote work experience and reflect 
how the past few months to improve my workflow better.

## Hits 🎯

**Less Travel**

Since my job, was in Thiruvanthupuram, it would have meant I should have travelled and stayed in a new city. If that was the case, it would have required
me to travel weekly in train in Vanchinad express, every morning on Monday and return on Friday. I would have stayed with my aunt which takes daily about 1 hour 30 minutes in commute. So with a remote job, now I have more time to work even more productively. 

**Save Cost**
One of the best things is less cost of living, I am actually living in my house which incurs to me almost zero costs. Eating healthy food is way better than eating food from hotel almost every day. This has helped me work on pretty cool things. And as always it is the skills which helps us paying the bills.

**More time for health and side projects**

I have always slacked on health, yet remote work has helped me find time to work out and loose some weight. It helps me to find time to walk every day.
All this has helped improve my health over the past few months.

**Flexibility**

Remote offers great flexibility even while working for a fixed period of time. This flexibility is going to be very crucial in the upcoming years as 
more and more companies are moving to lesser work hours. I am seeing in the coming years we will be having more companies which offer 4 work days
instead of the current five and even [20 hour work weeks or less like how it is in companies like GumRoad](https://sahillavingia.com/work).

