---
title: Log2- Learning FastBook along with Study Group
type: post
published: false
tag: [fastbook, myself, ML, Deep learning]
readtime: true
---

Session Highligts of Week 2:

[Video Link](https://youtu.be/neBEXD22bbg)

- Lot of ground was covered by explaining the fastai Lesson1 and Lesson2 till how to get the data
- Tanishq joined us with his tips on how to do projects effectively
- One of the easiest way to get unstuck is to ask questions(every time)



Reminder by [Aman Arora](https://twitter.com/amaarora) on things to do:

- This week please make sure that you're able to run code from chapter-1 and understand at a high level the 6 lines of code used to create the Pets classifier. Don't forget to run doc(<fastai function here>) if you want to dig deeper into any fastai function. This week you should really start messing with code.
- Don't forget to the questionnaire at the end of Chapter-1! This will help you with your understanding!
- Please make sure that you have your dataset ready - I personally found setting Azure API key a little tricky cause things have changed since the book was first written. Will post a discussion post with the exact steps and how you can get the API key too. 
- We should really start considering moving our discussions to the fast.ai or W&B forums. I can't remember where, but Jeremy also mentioned in a fast.ai course video in the past that forums are better for project discussions - since these discussions are more persistent. This will also make it easier for me to highlight your work in the next week's video. It also makes it easier for someone looking at FastBook reading group video 6 months later to find these discussion posts compared to Slack messages that get lost after 10K messages (IIRC).
- Consider sharing your work here or create a W&B forum post - it's okay if your project isn't ready and its half baked. Remember we don't want to be perfectionists, rather do things in multiple iterations and improve as we go.
  
Personal section:
  
- Learning section as mentioned (my journey as well)
- That's why I am writing
  
