---
title: Deep Learning For Coders with fastai Couse - Lesson 2
type: post
published: false
tag: [fastbook, myself, ML, Deep learning, fastai, journey]
readtime: true
author: kurianbenoy
---

We walked through the first model, and learned that the stuff we learn in code.
To build grizzly bears and teddy bears.

RandomResized Question:
Does randomresized crop duplicate the image -- i.e. you get multiple copies and you ensure that all the parts of the image are used in training? or does it just make one crop?

Alex's question(didn't understand)


Build a good model. Understand and took a look at data and see what can be done to clean this dataset, as you slowly progress on training models. Actually this technique is SUPER helpful-in a recent interview, Chris Deotte (4x Grandmaster) shared how these resizing techniques helped them win a solo gold

4GB machine, class and holt occasionaly

In GPU, always run one things at a time.

If you are in yellow, always stop try. First go ahead and watch fully without understanding.
Then watch again and follow time. This is an unusual way.

+1 for what Jeremy just said. This is how I do it ... I just take notes where things were in the live lecture that I want to go back to later.

Pointed to tanishq tutorial on huggingface space. Hamel is even using github desktop, yet
most of time we use terminal. In windows, we have WSL, just use ubuntu. He showed installing via
ubuntu. Jeremy like Windows, but then there is linux environment with a good Deep jig.
He uses 4GB CPU.

Github desktop in Ubuntu

https://gist.github.com/berkorbay/6feda478a00b0432d13f1fc0a50467f1

He created a simple fastai model, uploading model in dogs_cat and then export.

Quick gradio demo
Catas vs Dog inference

Jupyter notebooks debugging with magic methods %magic

Look at dict, numbers. Changing images predicted and issue with gradio using function to
return gradio docs. Tensors is not supported at moment.

Jeremy with cats vs dogs classifier. The donny classifier which predicted as cat dog.
Her daughter asked these questions(Cat mixed with Dog).
Now we have a simple example. 

## fastsetup

Installing python and jupyter-notebooks.

https://github.com/fastai/fastsetup

A big issue in laptops. There is a setup_conda.sh. In linux or mac, don't use that python.

That Python will mess stuff up. Running conda based systems is good.

Run mamba install fastai
mamba install -c fastchan jupyter nbdev

Setting up huggingspace. Then using git & conda.

Did dogs vs cats

## Gradio with webapps

API in gradio
https://hf.space/embed/kurianbenoy/audioclassification/api

With live demo, we could have easily used it.

fetch('https://hf.space/embed/kurianbenoy/audioclassification/+/api/predict/', { method: "POST", body: JSON.stringify({"data":[ {"data": null, "is_example": true, "name": "000003.ogg"}

]}), headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" } }).then(function(response) { return response.json(); }).then(function(json_response){ console.log(json_response) })

With a Javascript app, there is not a lot of steps. There is an

How do you create a website for website. Without any software, you can run this file. That's so
cool about javascript. There is something cool called github pages

He used alembic theme. With a particular  configuration. At top of any github pages, you should
add three dashes. The world of javascript apps, he build this cool apps.

You don't really need any money, any work with cool stuff.

Next week we will be learning and diving into NLP. Then 

Lot of frontend developers. Don't be too afraid to run in javascript

