---
title: Deep Learning For Coders with fastai Couse - Lesson 1
type: post
published: false
tag: [fastbook, myself, ML, Deep learning, fastai, journey]
readtime: true
author: kurianbenoy
---

Jeremy said there are two types of student:

1. UQ student who attend lessons in class(almost 350 there and also 100 remotely)
2. fastai live

If you have N95, K95 it's live

Having study buddies, will be very helpful to pursue a study group. This is the version 5 of
this course, and it's amazing things have changed. Identifying a bird in 2015, was
virtually impossible. Images are made of numbers

Deep learning moves so fast, since it's using Dalle-2 input images and generate twitter bios.
Happy sisiphus, using twitter bios to generate computer visions. Nick spends less than 2
minutes, and it's very helpful for creative people.

Now the Pathways language model, read english models. It answers question with explanation.
Explains jokes.

@Tanishq Abraham
https://ethics.fast.ai/ - created by learning

Radek build caps.fast.ai, and Radek got into NvidaAI

He is a homeschooler, he taught about Paul Lockhart & David Perkins with inspiration from fast.ai. You will go into as much technical stuff, yet you will learn who finds cool stuff.

He wrote an awesome book and this course, we are not using any material from directly. Multiple
people learn in a different way, with different source. Always read one portion of book
after each chapter. No content from fastbook in this book.

Entilitic, he build a good medical company. Almost 6 million people watched his videos. It's amazing to see why lot of people like in tesla, OpenAI they use the course.

Why couldn't we build a bird recognizer in 2012?

- Taking histopothical images. They used computer vision techniques
- They got big team of datascientist, mathematicans with lot of features
- The project took years
- in deep learning(it was not in their radar)
- Very succesfull, neural network build these features on ourself. 
- Mathew D Zeiler & Rob Fergus(and actual weights)
- Combine all features to learn and go slowly with things. Don't come up with any of these.

Image based algorithms, are not for images. Image for music classification by Deolho,
Ethan sutin sounds from image recognizer. Pictures from music classification, with some
creativity

Lots of data is a myth by companies who sell data processing units. Lot of free resources.
Transfer learning & Pytorch vs Tensorflow.
Tensorflow is now slowly dying in research. IN research repos, tensorflow research.
https://www.assemblyai.com/blog/pytorch-vs-tensorflow-in-2022/

Will be increasingly released, that pytorch will sustain. Lot of hairy code in pytorch. Writing
lot of code is bad. Always less code is better.

WeightDecay with Adam. He is using JupyterNotebook for slides. Insane

https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/16_accel_sgd.ipynb(AdamW explained here)

Pets notebooks

Fastdownload
resize_image(), thumb()

You spend lot of time of building and loading models. Like in compiler course.
Jeremy uses functional kind of programming, works for him very well. He uses map and 
all lot. The five things in Datablock based on 100 and 100s of project:

1. blocks
2. get_items
3. splitter
4. Batch_tfms(optional)
5. get_y
6. item_tfms

Without validation data, it won't allow to train. parent_label, return parent folder. we saved as
forests or birds. We need same size. Idea to do quickly, why not publish vision_learners
with pets dataset.

Jeremy used RiseJS Jupyter Notebook for presentation.
https://rise.readthedocs.io/en/stable/

Jupter Notebooks, for blogging, writing books
testing CI/CD with notebooks in parallel.

We are still scratching the surface. Lot of marketing out there, some of first open source course
available. The deep learning when it broke X, y, z in domain. In NLP it breaks lot of stuff

What's really go in on : in arthur samuel with graph. The graphs are build with gv2 in jupyter
notebook. Deploying models in ML is a bit tricky. But it's just predict and shows results.

So after first lesson:

a) If you know python, this is easy
b) If don't know python, it's very difficult

Regardless as where you are. Experiment and do something more complex, do more categories.
Go ahead and push yourself a little bit, but not much. Then present your work. Do stuff
on things where you are interested. Students moving to disaster resilence with lot of other 
things.

Splunk a patentent project using fradusters identification, envision

Jeremy says: 

1) Read questionnares at end of book
2) Alway look output of your images 
3) Look at quiz question before you are here.
