---
aliases:
- /conference/fossasia/2019/03/17/FOSSASIA-Day5
author: Kurian Benoy
categories:
- conference
- fossasia
date: '2019-03-17'
layout: post
title: FOSSASIA Summit - Day 5

---

For the last 4 days, I have never arrived in time for conference(the earliest I
reached was at 9:30 AM. Today was nothing different except I was also having an
opportunity to tak in FOSSASIA summit. Pradeep, Anupam(who was also taking about
GraphQL that day) and I went together in morning from Rucksackinn Hotel(FOSSASIA
Hostel). I had my talk scheduled for 10:45 where I was talking about
Keralarescue.in website.

![My lightning talk](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/kurianbenoy_lightning_talk.jpg)


I had a video in my ppt of about 1min30s showing severity of Kerala floods, then
I went ahead talking how platform was build, the features of keralarescue.in and
scale at which keralarescue.in operated, which helped in saving millions of
talk. Since this was my first talk in a big venue, I had my own hiccups. I
didn't manage my time properly, the talk I was supposed to complete in 5 minutes
ended only at 7min 30s. Luckily for me, the next speaker who was supposed to
speak didn't turn out, so I was allowed to continue my talk by Moderator(Ronald
Turner).


Saptak and Saran told me some tips on how to manage time talks in future which I
plan to stick on in future. After that, the day was lit for me. As I was able to
interview Hardware Hero Mitch Haltman and Michael Downey, DIAL. I had a lot of
conversations with exhibitors in FOSSASIA. I talked to Coreboot founders about
their product and now at the time of writing this article only I realise
Coreboot is a GSoC organisation this year. Yea conferences are an opportunity to
literally talk to anyone out there quite freely and person who you talks may
turn out be CEOs, Directors in Microsoft, Opensource Core Developers with tons
of experience.

![Eating out with Sayan and Saptak](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/eating_out.jpg)

This day was made memorable by going together with  @Saptak013 and @yudocaa  to
eat the local crusines in Singapore at a Hawkers place. It was amazing eating
Chilly Crab, Prawns, Momo and Hotpot(recommended by @OrangeCMS ). #memories live
for ever and @yudocaa taught me how to use chopsticks and he even gifted me a
set of chopsticks to practise even at home and keep on teaching this art of
using Chopsticks :)

![Travelling to gardens of Singapore](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/gardens.jpg)

![Indoors of Changi Airport](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/changi_airport_indoors.jpg)
