---
aliases:
- /conference/fossasia/2019/03/15/FOSSASIA-Day3
author: Kurian Benoy
categories:
- conference
- fossasia
date: '2019-03-15'
layout: post
title: FOSSASIA Summit - Day 3

---

![Interview with Remi Denis Courmont](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/remi_interview.jpg)

The day started off with Workshops from IBM. The first session was about Using
Kuberneetes and KNative. The workshop was lead by `Sai Vennam, IBM Engineer in
US`. I liked the way he took sessions and he personally cleared a lot of my
doubts about Kuberneetes. The amount of preparation he did for workshop was
amazing. Usually most of workshops end up being not so much learning and even if
they teach something basics into the topics they don't go into depth of the
things. It was followed by sessions on Responsible in AI using a cool tool
called AI Fairness360. I went ahead to attend amazing talks by Francois about
VLC 4.0.

It was followed by Codeheat presentations and Award cermony. A special applause
to all winners of CodeHeat who have been contributiong to Opensource
organisations for the past 6 months. Conducted an interview with Remi Denis
Courtmount, Lead SW Developer of VLC. He really took questions on even some
controversial things and he was really gratious to me during the entire duration
of Interview. I had a long chat with teams from RedHat, Indeed and IBM. To be
honest, I will rate this as **my best Open source interview ever**. Pics and
entire interview will be released soon.


I really started hacking for the UNESCO Indigenous Hackathon. My initial idea
was to do transulation of a Malayalam website which can act as Open source
alternative for meetup.com like thiing. I initially had some misconceptions
about Open Event, which is a project of FOSSASIA. I found it similar to
meetup.com, but Pradeep who was a previous GSoC scholar at FOSSASIA(also my
roommate) showed all the features of Open Event and it turned out it was not
something similar to meetup.com. My idea was a platform which will create awareness by
Keshavan Maman post about new things like AI for parents also. So there is
better awareness for parents about the events which are happening in the current
scenario. I guess my idea was really vague and turned out I became a lone
hacker.

![Snap from FOSSASIA Hackathon](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/fossasia_hackathon.jpg)

![Front view of our hotel](/posts/images/fossasia_summit_2019/rucksackin.jpg)